.. _ref_design_studies:

Parametric Design Studies
=========================

This section describes how to define and manage **design studies** in optiSLang
through the :mod:`ansys.optislang.parametric.design_study` module.  

Parametric design studies enable systematic exploration, sensitivity analysis, and optimization
of design parameters and responses within a structured workflow created from various templates.


Design Study Manager
--------------------

A **parametric design study** module encapsulates creation and execution of workflows, using
:py:class:`ParametricDesignStudyManager <ansys.optislang.parametric.design_study.ParametricDesignStudyManager>` instance, 
operating on :py:class:`Optislang <ansys.optislang.core.optislang.Optislang>` instance. It may contain a single
or multiple parametric design studies.

To create a new parametric design study, create a template (see `TODO: templates section...`) and run 
:py:meth:`create_design_study() <ansys.optislang.parametric.design_study.ParametricDesignStudyManager.create_design_study>` method, returning
an instance of :py:class:`ParametricDesignStudy <ansys.optislang.parametric.design_study.ParametricDesignStudy>`, that can be then used to 
execute the created workflow.

Design Study
------------
To automatically execute design study workflow, use :py:meth:`execute() <ansys.optislang.parametric.design_study.ParametricDesignStudy.execute>`
method, which is execute in a blocking mode.

If a non-blocking execution is wanted, use :py:meth:`start_in_thread() <ansys.optislang.parametric.design_study.ParametricDesignStudy.start_in_thread>` 
method, executing the study in a separate thread. This allows to manually handle execution of the 
:py:class:`ProxySolverNode <ansys.optislang.core.nodes.ProxySolverNode>` instances, using built-in methods 
:py:meth:`get_designs() <ansys.optislang.parametric.design_study.ParametricDesignStudy.get_designs>` and
:py:meth:`set_designs() <ansys.optislang.parametric.design_study.ParametricDesignStudy.set_designs>`, used to obtain designs generated by any optiSLang 
parametric system, process them externally and then, return them back to the optiSLang parametric system.








